# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

Architecture
- The SPA is client-rendered frontend focused application, which makes calls to a backend API to request database data. Data is sent to the frontend, and new information is rendered as needed, all within a single page. Different features are divided up into services and components. Each with .html for visual text, and .ts for logic processing. The SPA used Angular.
- The original application we built was implemented with an MVC structure. The controller takes in user input, retrieves data from the database model, processes it, and fetches the new dynamically rendered html from the view. This is then sent over to the user in a http response. Handlebars assisted with templating the html to condense repeated code. Express assists with request handling, routing, templating, and database connections. This multi-page application is primarily processed on the backend.
- MongoDB was chosen because it is commonly used in the MEAN stack, for javascript applications. In this case, MongoDB easily integrates with Node, and it supports very flexible schema. There wasn't a need to run an overly complex relational database like MySQL. The most that was stored was trip information in a single collection. MongoDB is also flexible if the application needs to scale. 

Functionality
- JSON is a text based format for representing data. It has a javascript syntax, and is a natural fit for transmitting data between servers that are running javascript. Since MongoDB supports JSON, data can be stored and retrieved from the server quite easily, while keeping the data in a consistent format for viewing or manipulating.
- For the SPA, I added functionality to delete a trip. I wanted to be able to easily delete it, without having to make a postman DELETE API request all the time. This was not only a natural transition, because I had already implemented the edit functionality, but it was also a reusable component that was repeated accross trip-card elements. The same goes for implementing basic user token authentication, and being able to reuse the code for every ADD, EDIT, and DELETE trip button. If I could explore one thing to refractor, it would be making sure to reause my authentication service components and limit my duplicated code.  
  
Testing
- RESTful API is an interface for exhanging information across the internet. The API methods are http requests and response calls that perform a specific function to a resource. The basic methods create(POST), read(GET), update(PUT), and delete(DELETE). These HTTP methods are a request from the client for an action to be taken on a certain resource. The resource being the URL, or endpoint. To secure these resources from being accessed or modified by unauthorized users, authentication was implemented in the form a tokens. Middleware was implemented both on the backend and frontend to require a user token to accompany each HTTP request, as well as to be validated with the logged in user. Testing had to be done, both on the API itself, as well as from the frontend SPA. Postman was a great resource to construct my HTTP requests with tokens and sample JSON in the body. The console within each server was also useful for tracking errors and inserting .log()s to view the request contents. 

Reflection
- This course has given me a blueprint for how to design an MVC architectured application, as well as an SPA. Although I have some experience with web-apps, I have been hesistant to explore front-end frameworks like Angular. This course has provided me the opportunity to get much more comfortable with learning new skills and researching. One example that I appreciated was being able to draw connections to the similarities with creating an android app. Developing, navigating, and designing different components within a single application. The familiarity with HTML was also very helpful. I've also gained insight into how SPA's target a more user-centric dynamic experience. I may explore creating a portfolio project SPA in the future. 
